---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 6
published: true
title:  "Week 6"
tags:
    - post week vim
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59am (just before noon) Wednesday November 2, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 6"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
notes:
    - name: "Monday"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hBawvBgB5QiJUG_-9sygI5dQk_WgrFqQ"
handouts:
    - name: "Monday Lecture Handout (Google Slides)"
      url: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1f5iFG_uMNd7TRdxmPlf_tv5MM4SwxrI27Qlnuf9O-uw/edit?usp=sharing"
    - name: "Monday Lecture Handout (PDF)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Q0nSkfH_S5vL6kV79lIx0ml15Fsd-wun/view?usp=share_link"
    - name: "Wednesday Lecture Handout (Google Slides)"
      url: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13a0Glj6jWNnCemwDvhC7rjasEw0VWIsiJq8Kn1Dt8SA/edit?usp=sharing"
    - name: "Wednesday Lecture Handout (PDF)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XnDRjknz6xwQrLJ32sA6JRmcU-PMGypJ/view?usp=sharing"
podcasts:
    - name: "12:00 pm Section - A00"
      url: "https://podcast.ucsd.edu/watch/fa22/cse15l_a00"
    - name: "1:00 pm Section - B00"
      url: "https://podcast.ucsd.edu/watch/fa22/cse15l_b00"
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links
<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials
<ul>
{% for handout in page.handouts %}
<li><a href="{{handout.url}}">{{handout.name}}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### Notes from class
{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% endfor %}

### Links to Podcast
**Note:** Links will require you to log in as a UCSD student
<ul>
{% for link in page.podcasts %} 
<li><a href="{{link.url}}">{{link.name}}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Material

- Watch this YouTube Video: [https://youtu.be/1DvQ6sevF_U](https://youtu.be/1DvQ6sevF_U)
- Read this page (and watch the video if you like): [https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/editors/](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/editors/)

## Lab Tasks

### Sharing What You Learned

Share the link to the Github Pages site for your Lab Report 3 in your group's
lab doc, and write which command you researched for the lab report along with
it.

Pair up with someone else in your lab group who chose a different command to
research than you for Lab Report 3. Try one another's examples, and talk about
what you learned from trying them out. Are there any useful ways to combine the
two commands? Do they answer any new questions you hadn't thought of before?

Share what you think the coolest example is from each of your lab reports with
the whole group. **Write these down in notes**

### Doing it All From the Command Line

#### Editing from the command line: `vim`

Log into ieng6. Run the command `vimtutor`. Set a timer for 15 minutes.

Complete the first two lessons (go past lesson 2 if you can in 15 minutes).
Really do the exercises!

After the 15 minutes are up, clone the repository from the first skill
demonstration. If you already have it cloned, you can clone a new copy by giving
the name of a new directory to make after the git URL, like this:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-f22/skill-demo1 week6-skill-demo1
```

This will clone it and put it in the `week6-skill-demo1` directory.

Then, **in pairs**, you are going to write down _exactly_ the keys to press to
make an edit to fix the test. You'll share these instructions in your shared lab
doc, and the next group is going to use them to try and replicate what you did.

So: Fix the test using what you learned about `vim` in the tutorial (as a
reminder, you're changing the `10` to `1391` in the expected value of the test).
Re-run the tests to make sure it works. Keep extremely accurate track of what
you had to type to make this happen. You might even want to change the file back
to its initial state (`u` is the command for undo in `vim`) and double-check
that the instructions you are giving are good. When you're satisfied, write down
the list of keys that need to be pressed (including all uses of Backspace,
Enter, Escape, and so on!) in the shared notes doc. Have one partner in your
pair do this typing; the other partner shouldn't make the edits yet because they
will in the next step.

Then, go around the groups. The group to your left should use your instructions
to try and make the edit, then the next group to their left will use their
instructions, and so on. Watch carefully! Was each group able to? Why or why
not?  Did the group typing do something that didn't match the instructions, were
the instructions not complete, or did something else happen? Don't leave any
mysteries!

You can press Ctrl (or Cmd)-Shift-p and start typing "screencast" to turn on
screencasting mode so others can see what you type.

**Discuss and refine**: After you do this, discuss how you could make the
process easier. Did you have to press the arrow keys a lot? Are there `vim`
commands that could have improved the process? How short of a key sequence can
you make it to perform this edit? Can you get it under 20 keypresses including
save and exit? Under 15?

Then, each group should choose **one** of the following tasks, and repeat this
whole process (design the keys to press in pairs, write them down in the notes,
then go around and try the instructions one pair at a time, with others looking
on and observing).

- In `DocSearchServer.java`, change the name of the `start` parameter of
`getFiles`, and all of its uses, to instead be called `base`.
- In `DocSearchServer.java`, add a new line right before `File[] paths = f.listFiles();`
that prints out the `toString` of `f` and a message saying it's a directory.
- In `DocSearchServer.java`, change the `main` method so that rather than
hardcoding the search on the `./technical` directory, it uses the second
command-line argument for the path to search
- **Challenge** In `TestDocSearch.java`, copy the test called `testSearchCount`,
rename the new test to `testSearchCount2` and change the query string being
tested to `tax` rather than `taxation`.

After watching the other groups do their work, can you think of any ways to
improve your instructions?

#### Practice

If you have more time, use `vim` to make the _other_ change from the skill
demonstration—making the server search by pathname rather than by file
contents—and similarly make a commit for it.

Show the resulting `git log` in the notes doc.

Also write down in notes:

- What errors or surprising behavior did you run into while doing this?
- What's a situation where you can imagine needing or wanting to use these
command-line tools instead of more familiar ones like VScode?

If you have more time, practice doing these tasks in as few keypresses as
possible.

