---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 7
published: true
title:  "Week 7"
tags:
    - post week git
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59am (just before noon) Wednesday November 9, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 7"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
notes:
handouts:
podcasts:
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links
<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials
<ul>
{% for handout in page.handouts %}
<li><a href="{{handout.url}}">{{handout.name}}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### Notes from class
{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% endfor %}

### Links to Podcast
**Note:** Links will require you to log in as a UCSD student
<ul>
{% for link in page.podcasts %} 
<li><a href="{{link.url}}">{{link.name}}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Material

- Check out this Piazza post for some programming videos: [https://piazza.com/class/l7pbb88wlepvh/post/426](https://piazza.com/class/l7pbb88wlepvh/post/426)

## Lab Tasks



## Week 7 Lab Report

This week's lab report focuses on material from the week 6 lab; you can start
it before the week 7 lab.

### Part 1

Pick one of the tasks from the week 6 lab that your group completed in Vim in
the second set of tasks. The full descriptions are in the [week 6
descriptions](/week/week6); as a brief reminder:

- Changing the name of the `start` parameter and its uses to `base`
- Adding a new line to `print` before `File[] paths = f.listfiles()`
- Changing the `main` method to take a command-line argument

Pick **one** of these, and give the _shortest_ sequence of `vim` commands that
your group came up with to accomplish the task. (If you don't have access to
your group's notes or otherwise don't know for some reason, come up with your
own that is less than 30 total keys pressed).

First, write the sequence out as just a sequence of keys formatted in monospace
font (e.g. as code with backticks). Use `<>` to indicate special keys like
`<Backspace>` or `<Enter>` or `<Esc>`. Then, for each command that has a
visible effect of moving the cursor or changing text, take a screenshot and
describe which commands/keypresses got to that step.

For example, if I were opening a program and changing the first occurrence of
the word “apple” to “banana” in a file containing `blueberry apple
sauce`, I might write:

`/apple<Enter>cebanana<Esc>:w<Enter>`

- A description/screenshot of typing `/apple<Enter>` and the cursor jumping to
  the start of `apple`
- A description/screenshot of typing `ce`, switching into input mode and
  deleting the word `apple`
- A description/screenshot of typing `banana<Esc>`, replacing the text and
  returning to insert mode
- A description/screenshot of typing `:w<Enter`, saving the changes

Post this as a page on your Github Pages site, and submit the printed-to-PDF
version of the `.html` page to the “Lab Report 3 – Week 7 Vim” Gradescope
assignment.

### Part 2

When you go on to CSE30/courses beyond, internships that involve configuring
servers, or any other tasks where you work on remote machines, you'll have to
make decisions about how you manage your workflow. These aren't the only two
options (indeed, here we don't even discuss using `git`, for example). However,
it's useful to compare two potential strategies.

Consider performing the edit task you chose and re-running the program _when
you have to run it remotely_. Time yourself twice:

- Once, start in Visual Studio Code and make the edit there, then
  `scp` the file to the remote server and run it there to confirm it
  works (you can just run `bash test.sh` on the remote to test it out).
  Consider having the appropriate `scp` command in your command history or
  easily copy-pasteable!
- Second, start already logged into a `ssh` session. Then, make the edit
  for the task you chose in Vim, then exit Vim and run `bash test.sh`.

Report how long it took you to make the edit in seconds in both styles, and any
difficulties or details that came up in doing so.

Then, answer this question with a few sentences:

- Which of these two styles would you prefer using if you had to work on a
  program that you were running remotely, and why?
- What about the project or task might factor into your decision one way or
  another? (If nothing would affect your decision, say so and why!)


