---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 3
published: true
title:  "Week 3"
tags:
    - post week remote-access
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
todos:
    - due-date: "10:00 pm Monday January 30, 2023"
      name: "Lab Report 1 Resubmission"
      url: "/week/week1/#week-1-lab-report"
    - due-date: "10:00 pm Monday January 30, 2023"
      name: "Lab Report 2"
      url: "/week/week3/#week3-lab-report" # Make sure to update this link regularly
    - due-date: "9:00 am (just before class) Wednesday January 25, 2023"
      name: "Quiz 3 (will be released after class Monday)"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
handouts:
    - name: "Monday Handout (Slides)"
      url: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lPMaee3TPlWdNLkooYWFlnBPMwkhUxw5f_8JEjnbENQ/edit?usp=sharing"
    - name: "Monday Handout (PDF)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fk6OJAt0uGb3OdnLEaDzUg1_MRTQu--g/view?usp=sharing"
    - name: "Wednesday Handout (Slides)"
      url: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1s4pGcH4OlqfqYBRpabi_h8tVzb-CkPC6L9LD6ht4xOU/edit?usp=sharing"
    - name: "Wednesday Handout (PDF)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KK9t6cJ0OKvByfNCQtVOUFMwaEqOXFc8/view?usp=share_link"
notes:
    - name: "Monday Notes (1)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZRSK1HAL8gvr9ChDd7zC95HdzjLv25DZ"
    - name: "Monday Notes (2)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/14ZlhjywC-BmZFz0y8GQx5wLzvktT17Xl"
    - name: "Wednesday Notes (1)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pEjoPD0krMJKrIqmsSMpb_jV_PDcXqh8"
    - name: "Wednesday Notes (2)"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/13KmH0cz5IJs12WQGAR2lJ866iJFnXVe1"
videos:
    - url: "https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/XJBUw3sNeuk"
    - url: "https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/hIqa1EoqIBM"
    - url: "https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ZsCVRkR_nik"
    - url: "https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/M_S88_2t1UE?cc_load_policy=1"
podcasts:
    - name: "9:00 am Section - A00"
      url: "https://podcast.ucsd.edu/watch/wi23/cse15l_a00"
    - name: "10:00 am Section - B00"
      url: "https://podcast.ucsd.edu/watch/wi23/cse15l_b00"
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Due Dates & Links

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### To Read

- Read these two articles by Julia Evans (one summarized in a comic below):
    - [When debugging, your attitude matters](https://jvns.ca/blog/debugging-attitude-matters/)
    - [How I Got Better at Debugging](https://jvns.ca/blog/2015/11/22/how-i-got-better-at-debugging/)
- Read this article by John Regehr: [How to Debug](https://blog.regehr.org/archives/199)
    - You don't need to know what all the technical tools are in these readings (systems programming, CSS, divs, etc)
- From the Regehr article, focus on the vocabulary (symptom, bug, etc); from the Evans articles, focus on the vibes
- This article: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zbMVZxsI1zOBPhSsvBi4kB5dPJuxyOJh/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zbMVZxsI1zOBPhSsvBi4kB5dPJuxyOJh/view?usp=sharing)
  (Note that assigning an article doesn't necessarily mean Joe agrees with everything in it...)

## Lecture Materials
<ul>
{% for handout in page.handouts %}
<li><a href="{{handout.url}}">{{handout.name}}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### Video Shorts

{% for video in page.videos %}
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{video.url}}" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
{% endfor %}

### In-class notes
{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% endfor %}

### Links to Podcast
**Note:** Links will require you to log in as a UCSD student
<ul>
{% for link in page.podcasts %} 
<li><a href="{{link.url}}">{{link.name}}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lab Tasks

---

As usual, we publish these ahead of time, but they aren't guaranteed to be final
until the start of lab on Wednesday.

This week in lab, you will find symptoms of bugs by writing tests, and then
narrow down the actual bug.

### Setup

Make a fork of this repository (it's OK if it's public):

[https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w23/lab3](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-w23/lab3)

There are a few relevant files for us:

- `ArrayExamples.java`
- `ArrayTests.java`
- `ListExamples.java`
- `LinkedListExample.java`
- `FileExample.java`

The files that end in `Example` or `Examples` have code in them with bugs for
you to find – in `ListExamples` and `ArrayExamples`, all the methods have bugs.
- In `LinkedListExample` at least one of the methods on `LinkedList` has a bug. 
- In `FileExample`, `getFiles` has a bug. 
  
So many 🐛s!

The file `ArrayTests.java` has some _tests_ for the methods in
`ArrayExamples.java`. It uses a library called
[JUnit](https://junit.org/junit4/) to run tests using methods called
`assertEquals` and `assertArrayEquals` and other `assert...` methods. 
(**Note:** JUnit is already included in the repository so no need to install anything) 

When we run this class with JUnit, it runs each method that has a `@Test` annotation on
it, and reports the success or failure of the `assert` calls.

Since JUnit is an external library, it requires some extra work to compile and
run. These two commands work well, and you should see output like the below when
you run them:
    
MAC USERS:
```
local $ javac -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar *.java
local $ java -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ArrayTests
JUnit version 4.13.2
..
Time: 0.006

OK (2 tests)
```
    
WINDOWS USERS:
```
local $ javac -cp ".;lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar;lib/junit-4.13.2.jar" *.java
local $ java -cp ".;lib/junit-4.13.2.jar;lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar" org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ArrayTests
..
Time: 0.006

OK (2 tests)
```

- The `*` in the first command tells `javac` to compile *all* the `.java` files
in this directory. It's a shorthand for writing them all out, so it's a useful
notation to start using now whenever we have several Java files to compile.
- The `-cp` command-line argument stands for "classpath". Java uses this
command-line argument to know where to look for classes. It takes paths
separated by `:` / `;` (dependent on your operating system), so the first place it will look is `.`, the current directory.
After that, it will look for classes in the two `.jar` files in the `lib`
directory. A `.jar` file is like a `.zip` file of a bunch of classes, and Java
knows how to work with them.
- While you might think the `..` in the output below `JUnit` has something to do
with a path, it's actually printing a `.` for each test that runs. So if you run
hundreds of tests, you can kinda watch the progress by seeing how the dots count
up.

**Task with your group:** Try running the command of the operating system that *isn't*
yours. (For example, a MAC user trying the Windows command and vise-versa) *Observe* the
output and *discuss* with your partner/group what happens and why? 

**Write down in notes**: Discuss with at least one other group member: what does -cp do? If you don't reach a consensus, you can ask Google or your group's tutor for help! 

### Symptoms and Failure-inducing Inputs

#### Array Methods

The two tests we wrote for you in `ArrayTests.java` pass, but the two implementations of *reverse* methods in `ArrayExamples.java` have bugs! Write more tests in `ArrayTests.java` to demonstrate that the two methods, `reverseInPlace` and `reversed`, have bugs, and identify the bugs.

**Write down in notes**:  For each, what was the failure-inducing input (the
test)? What was the symptom (the output when the test failed)? What was the bug
(the problem in the code)? Be as specific as possible when adding the following down to your notes:
1. The code for your tests (copy it into the doc)
2. The output corresponding to each symptom
3. The code change you need to make to fix the bug


**Checkpoint** – After fixing the reverse methods, make a commit and push to
your repository. It's really useful to checkpoint your work this way; you will
be able to see in the commit history each of the elements above as well. See [Week 1’s Key Definitions and Related Links](https://ucsd-cse15l-w23.github.io/week/week1/) for the basics of `git` commands, and instructions on committing and pushing on Github Desktop.

For `averageWithoutLowest`, you will do a similar process as above, making sure to note symptoms, failure-inducing inputs, and bugs. But, this time, **your lab partner will brainstorm one of the tests for you to write, describe it to you at a high level, and then you will implement it.** Complete these steps as described below.
1. **Write down in notes** - Come up with a high level description of a test that your lab partner should implement (without using any code!). Also include: Which symptom/bug is this testing for? Why is this test useful?
2. Implement and run the test devised by your lab partner

If you're having trouble thinking of tests, try starting from the smallest
possible inputs (an empty array), and then trying increasing sizes of arrays to
structure your thinking.

#### List Methods

There are two methods in `ListExamples`, each of which has a bug. For this
program, create **a new file** called `ListTests.java` with JUnit tests. In `ListTests.java`, write some tests to identify and demonstrate the bugs in `ListExamples`. You should carefully design your tests to get failing inputs, symptoms,
and eventually identify the bugs. Keep in mind that most of the time we can find
relatively *small* inputs that trigger the symptom!

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new file! This
is one of the most common mistakes I make with `git` that is annoying for my
collaborators: I add a new file locally and forget to put it on Github for them
to see!

#### Linked List Methods

The file `LinkedListExample.java` has an implementation of a linked list that
is, in fact, buggy. We won't tell you which method(s) have the bugs. Create a
file called `LinkedListTests.java` and write tests in that file.

Note that for this case, your failure-inducing input requires a little more work
to construct: you have to build lists and try out the methods. All of that work
is part of the “failure-inducing input”, and it's useful to have it all written
down in code so that we don't have to remember it or re-type it each time we
want to run the test.

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new file! This
is one of the most common mistakes I make with `git` that is annoying for my
collaborators: I add a new file locally and forget to put it on Github for them
to see! This is repeated from last week.

**Reflect, write down in notes** – You've now had to create two new test files
(one for `ListExamples` and one for `LinkedListExample`). What actions did you take in
your editor to do this? How long did it take you? Could you or did you use
copy/paste effectively to avoid lots of typing? Could you or did you use the up
arrow in the terminal to “get back” earlier commands rather than typing them out
again? Any other tricks you could use to make this more painless in the future?

Discuss with your group! The long-term goal here is to learn tips and tricks to
take tasks that might be annoying 5-minute tasks and turn them into 30-second
tasks. It really changes how you think about writing tests if the process of
getting started takes less time!

#### File Methods

The file `FileExample.java` has an implementation of a method that works with
the filesystem and, fortunately for our learning, it's buggy.

This one is interesting because the definition of a "failure-inducing input" is
trickier – this program won't run without us having some files and paths
available to try! There is a comment in `FileExample.java` showing an example file structure for this program. So the first thing you may want to do is _create_ the file structure depicted in the comment in your repository! Then you can
write tests that use `FileExample.java`. You can create this just using VScode's "new
file" and "new folder" buttons/options.

To help you read and understand the program check out the `File` documentation here:

[https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/io/File.html](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/io/File.html)

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs. Remember that your input
is not just the code, but also the test files you created.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new files,
including the files you created as test input! All these files need to be a part
of the repository so that we can run the tests. (This is a particularly annoying
one to realize you missed later – the test will fail because the input data
doesn't exist!)


**Discuss** – Out of all the bugs above, which was the most interesting bug you
found? Have you ever made bugs like these yourself in your own programs? What
about having JUnit tests written might be useful one or two weeks from now?

#### Bugs and Troubleshooting

Let's test your knowledge of bugs and how to troubleshoot them!

You and your partner should design a bug that you think is _not_ trivial to
catch.  Make sure _you_ agree on what a failure-inducing input for it is. This
could be a new method you make up, or an edit to one of the existing methods in
the lab already.

**Write down in notes** Then, with another pair who has also done this, swap
the buggy programs you designed (you can copy-paste them into the notes doc to
share). See if you can spot one another's bugs, and catch them with a
well-designed input. Were these easy or hard to catch?

Once both groups have found the issues, try again! Try to stump one another with
plausible, but tough-to-find, bugs.

Share your favorites with your team and tutor. We'll share a few of the best
ones in class.

## Lab Report 2 - Servers and Bugs (Week 3) {#week3-lab-report}

As with the first lab report, you'll write this as a Github Pages page, then
print that page to PDF and upload to Gradescope. There are 3 parts:

### Part 1

Write a web server called `StringServer` that supports the path and behavior
described below. It should keep track of a single string that gets added to by
incoming requests. The requests should look like this:

```
/add-message?s=<string>
```

The effect of this request is to concatenate a new line (`\n`) and the string
after `=` to the running string, and then respond with the entire string so far.

So, for example, after

```
/add-message?s=Hello
```

The page should show

```
Hello
```

and after

```
/add-message?s=How are you
```

the page should show

```
Hello
How are you
```

Show the code for your `StringServer`, and two screenshots of using `/add-message`.

For **each** of the two screenshots, describe:

- Which methods in your code are called?
- What are the relevant arguments to those methods, and the values of any
relevant fields of the class?
- How do the values of any relevant fields of the class change from this
specific request? If no values got changed, explain why.

By _values_, we mean specific `String`s, `int`s, `URI`s, and so on. `"abc"` is a
value, `456` is a value, `new URI("http://...")` is a value, and so on.)

### Part 2

Choose one of the bugs from lab 3.

Provide:

- A failure-inducing input for the buggy program, as a JUnit test and any associated code (write it as a code block in Markdown)
- An input that _doesn't_ induce a failure, as a JUnit test and any associated code (write it as a code block in Markdown)
- The symptom, as the output of running the tests (provide it as a screenshot of running JUnit with at least the two inputs above)
- The bug, as the before-and-after code change required to fix it (as two code blocks in Markdown)

Briefly describe why the fix addresses the issue.

### Part 3

In a couple of sentences, describe something you learned from lab in week 2 or 3
that you didn't know before.

